{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12240\viewh15320\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs22 \cf0 Infant Visit\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 For new parents we follow the recommendations of the American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry - "first visit by the first birthday". Recognizing the short attention span of 1 year olds, Dr. Mathias will perform an exam, demonstrate proper oral hygiene techniques, and discuss your child's eating, feeding, and oral habits with you.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Sealants and Fillings\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 Normal pits and grooves on the chewing surfaces of back teeth can trap food that can't be removed by brushing or washed out by water or saliva. A sealant is a tough, plastic material designed to bond (stick) to tooth enamel.\uc0\u8232 \u8232 Composite fillings are more than just attractive. They require minimal tooth preparation, in other words less healthy tooth structure is removed to restore the tooth. Also, a sealant can be placed over the remaining exposed grooves of the tooth to minimize the risk of decay on another area of the tooth.\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Digital X-Rays\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 Dental x-rays or radiographs allow the dentist to see things about your oral health that cannot be seen by the naked eye. These items include cysts, cancerous and non-cancerous tumors, invisible decay that occurs between teeth, and the location of teeth that haven't grown all the way in.\uc0\u8232 \u8232 Modern dental x-ray machines are very safe. We use only state-of-the-art, low radiation machines. The amount of radiation exposure your body receives on an airplane flight from Los Angeles to New York exceeds the amount of exposure you will receive from a modern dental x-ray machine. Contrast this minimal exposure with the risk of not finding an illness until it is too late, and you can see why we prescribe regular diagnostic x-rays.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Preventive Care\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 Prevention is always better than treatment. Brush your teeth twice daily using any soft-bristled, ADA-approved tooth brush. We also recommend the use of modern electric tooth brushes such as Sonicare and Braun. Floss daily to remove plaque between teeth that you can't reach with regular brushing.\uc0\u8232 \u8232 Always rinse thoroughly with water after brushing (or after meals if you are unable to brush.) You may occasionally use a mouthwash to rinse. Children may benefit from the use of ACT fluoride rinse, to help prevent cavities from forming in between the teeth.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Crowns\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 A crown (often called a cap) covers the tooth and restores it to its original shape and size. Decay is removed and cleaned from the tooth and a preformed crown is placed over the tooth. Unlike adult crowns, in which the crown is made to fit the tooth, which requires two appointments, baby crowns are placed in one visit, because the tooth is prepared to fit the crown.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \
\
Mouth Guards\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 We recommend mouth guards for all our sports active patients. A mouth protector minimizes the potential for tooth fracture or loss due to traumatic injury. In addition, it can reduce the concussive effects of certain head injuries.\uc0\u8232 \u8232 We provide custom-made pro-style mouth guards to all of our orthodontic patients free of charge during treatment.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Patient Comfort\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 Our office was designed for infants, children and teens. Our facilities are designed to make kids feel right at home. It's a unique Jungle-themed atmosphere that helps children relax and enjoy their experience. Children deserve to experience a gentle, caring approach to their dental care.\uc0\u8232 \u8232 We offer nitrous oxide (laughing gas) for the slightly anxious child. An extremely safe option, nitrous oxide helps a child who is cooperative but worried about various aspects of their appointment. It helps alleviate anxiety about having instruments placed in the mouth.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Child\'92s First Cleaning\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 We recommend a complete dental exam, a professional cleaning, and a topical fluoride application at 2 to 3 yrs of age. During this visit we allow extra time for your child to become acquainted with our staff and to inspect our facilities. By proceeding at a reasonable pace and explaining procedures in age appropriate terminology, most fears and anxieties are eliminated.\uc0\u8232 \u8232 We evaluate your child's brushing skills and correct any deficiencies. X-rays are not a routine part of our exam, and are only administered when further information is necessary to complete an accurate diagnosis.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Space Maintainers\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 When your child prematurely loses a baby tooth, the use of a space maintainer may be used. A space maintainer -- a combination of bands and wires designed to hold the remaining teeth in a position that will allow the future permanent tooth to erupt in the proper location.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Tooth Whitening\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 Tooth whitening has become a cost effective and valuable tool in the creation of a beautiful smile. However, many patients experience unnecessary sensitivity and discomfort when whitening. Dr. Mathias offers an affordable, comfortable, and customized whitening program which eliminates many of the discomforts and inconveniences associated with whitening.\
\
\
\uc0\u8232 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Privacy Policy\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 We are required by law to maintain the privacy of "protected health information." "Protected health information" includes any identifiable information that we obtain from you or others that relates to your physical or mental health, the health care you have received, or payment for your health care.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Safe Sedation\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 We offer several sedation dentistry options depending on your child\'92s needs and how much treatment is needed. Nitrous oxide is a safe, effective option for children who are apprehensive about treatment and quickly dissipates with normal breathing after the treatment completes.}